## Text-Analysis-Love-Letters

[https://rpubs.com/ebw5tc/stat4559](https://rpubs.com/ebw5tc/fitzgeraldloveletters)

One of the most iconic American romances in the 20th century was that of F. Scott Fitzgerald and his wife Zelda Fitzgerald. Claimed to have respectively driven each other to alcoholism and insanity, the two lovers are still known as an example of reckless romance during one of the most decadent periods of American history. Both critically acclaimed writers, Fitzgerald and Zelda shared love letters throughout their whole romance, detailing the dearest sentiments of their feelings and darkest depths of their despairs. They wrote of everything and anything - from the adventures of their daughter Scottie to the Great Depression and to the onset of World War II. Despite all the bad, their letters consistently show their passionate love for the other:

> “I’ve tried so many times to think of a new way to say it – and its still I love you – love you – love you – my Sweetheart.” - **Zelda Fitzgerald**

F Scott Fitzgerald’s writing has always struck a chord with me - I find that I resonate with his characters despite the fact these stories were written over a century ago. That’s the hallmark of writing that will stand the test of time: creating stories and plots and characters that will always make a reader feel more understood. Many of F Scott’s stories were inspired by his own romance with Zelda, as many of his heroines are based around the quintessential “flapper” figure that Zelda represented. As so much as his writing was based around this romance, I was eager to dive deeper into his and his wife’s personal history and perhaps see how their personal lives reflected the historical events occurring around them and the societal norms for men and women.

I created this project with the hopes to visualize their relationship through textual analysis of their love letters. I’ll be investigating a multitude of different topics including sentiment analysis, topic modeling, and random forest classification. I want to see how their topics changed over time - especially if they changed in conjunction to events happening in their own lives (alcoholism, mental institutions) and the greater world (the Great Depression, WWII). I’d like to explore the difference in sentiments between F Scott and Zelda, hopefully concluding about the differences between societal roles of men and women in the 20th century. Finally, I’d like to investigate if it is possible to use textual analysis to predict whether a letter was written by F Scott or Zelda, which would suggest that machine learning can learn from the subtleties in language.
